Fixes to wallet pages (#10665)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: src/content/guides/how-to-create-an-ethereum-account/index.md

lang: en
---

# How to create an Ethereum account

> Anyone can create an Ethereum account at any time, for free. There are several ways, but the easiest and most common way is to use an app known as a wallet. Wallets create and secure the keys that enable you to use Ethereum. You can use your wallet to send transactions, check your token balances and connect to apps built on Ethereum. Some "web2" apps now allow you to sign in with Ethereum too.

Author: ```suggestion
Anyone can create an Ethereum account at any time, for free. There are several ways, but the easiest and most common way is to use an app known as a wallet. Wallets create and secure the keys that enable you to use Ethereum. You can use your wallet to send transactions, check your token balances and connect to apps built on Ethereum, such as token exchanges, games, NFT marketplaces and more. Some "web2" apps now allow you to sign in with Ethereum too.
```

Unlike opening a new account with a company, creating an Ethereum account is done freely, privately and without requiring permission. Accounts are controlled by keys that your wallet software helps you create, and are not issued by a third party, nor stored in a central registry.

## Step 1: Choose a wallet

A wallet is an app that helps you manage your Ethereum account. It uses your keys to send and receive transactions and sign in to apps. There are dozens of different wallets to choose from—mobile, desktop, or even browser extensions.

<ButtonLink to="/wallets/find-wallet/">
  Find a wallet
</ButtonLink>

> If you are new, you can select the “New to crypto” filter on the "find a wallet" page to identify wallets that should include all necessary features suitable for beginners. There are also other profile filters to cater to your needs. These are examples of commonly used wallets - you should do your own research before trusting any software.

Reviewer: IMO this should have a screenshot for clarity, thoughts @konopkja?

Reviewer 2: images are always a good idea

lang: en
---

# How to create an Ethereum account

Anyone can create an Ethereum account at any time, for free. There are several ways, but the easiest and most common way is to use an app known as a wallet. Wallets create and secure the keys that enable you to use Ethereum. You can use your wallet to send transactions, check your token balances and connect to apps built on Ethereum, such as token exchanges, games, NFT marketplaces and more. Some "web2" apps now allow you to sign in with Ethereum too.

Unlike opening a new account with a company, creating an Ethereum account is done freely, privately and without requiring permission. Accounts are controlled by keys that your wallet software helps you create, and are not issued by a third party, nor stored in a central registry.

## Step 1: Choose a wallet

A wallet is an app that helps you manage your Ethereum account. It uses your keys to send and receive transactions and sign in to apps. There are dozens of different wallets to choose from—mobile, desktop, or even browser extensions.

<ButtonLink to="/wallets/find-wallet/">
  Find a wallet
</ButtonLink>

> If you are new, you can select the “New to crypto” filter on the "find a wallet" page to identify wallets that should include all necessary features suitable for beginners. There are also other profile filters to cater to your needs. These are examples of commonly used wallets - you should do your own research before trusting any software.

Author: ```suggestion
If you are new, you can select the “New to crypto” filter on the "find a wallet" page to identify wallets that should include all necessary features suitable for beginners. 

!img[filter selection on 'find a wallet' page](/assets/wallet-box.png)

There are also other profile filters to cater to your needs. These are examples of commonly used wallets - you should do your own research before trusting any software.
```

## Step 2: Download and install your wallet app

Once you have decided on a specific wallet, visit their official website or app store, download and install it. All of them should be free.

## Step 3: Open the app and generate or import your Ethereum account

The first time you open your new wallet you might be asked to choose between creating a new account or importing an existing one. Click on the new account creation.

## Step 4: Store your recovery phrase

> Some apps will request you to save a secret 'seed phrase'. Keeping this seed phrase safe is extremely important! The seed phrase is used to generate a secret key for an account which can be used to sign and send transactions. Any person who knows the seed phrase can take control of all the accounts generated by it. Never share the seed phrase with anyone. The seed phrase should contain 12 to 24 randomly generated words (the order of the words matters).

Reviewer 2: we have a conversation on this topic in another comment, i tagged you in it

> Some apps will request you to save a secret 'seed phrase'. Keeping this seed phrase safe is extremely important! The seed phrase is used to generate a secret key for an account which can be used to sign and send transactions. Any person who knows the seed phrase can take control of all the accounts generated by it. Never share the seed phrase with anyone. The seed phrase should contain 12 to 24 randomly generated words (the order of the words matters).

Author: ```suggestion
Some apps will request you to save a secret 'seed phrase' (you might also see this referred to as a "recovery phrase" or a "mnemonic"). Keeping this seed phrase safe is extremely important! The seed phrase is used to generate a secret key for an account which can be used to sign and send transactions. Any person who knows the seed phrase can take control of all the accounts generated by it. Never share the seed phrase with anyone. The seed phrase should contain 12 to 24 randomly generated words (the order of the words matters).
```

### Are my wallet and my Ethereum account the same?

> No. Each account has a unique Ethereum address and a secret key. The secret key is used to sign and send transactions. The wallet is a management tool that helps you to manage accounts. A single wallet might give access to several accounts, and a single account can be accessed by multiple wallets.

Reviewer 2: this part can be confusing @jmcook1186 
1. we need to unify the focus/language and/or explain the difference between "key", "secret key" and a "secret recovery phrase". **Ideally use just one term.**

2.  I think the explanation fails short because it starts explaining the connection between secret key and address instead just saying that wallet only views an account and that there can be multiple accounts in one wallet.

Author: How about this? I think part of the technical issues on the  page stem from trying to use a single term for distinct concepts.

```suggestion
No. The wallet is a management tool that helps you to manage accounts. A single wallet might give access to several accounts, and a single account can be accessed by multiple wallets. Each account is really just a pair of keys. One key is used to create an address and can be shared freely. The other is a secret key used to sign and send transactions. The seed phrase is used to generate the secret key for an account (it is actually slightly more complicated because one seed phrase can generate multiple accounts). 
```

Author: ```suggestion
No. The wallet is a management tool that helps you to manage accounts. A single wallet might give access to several accounts, and a single account can be accessed by multiple wallets. The seed phrase is used to create accounts that are then controlled by the wallet.
```

Reviewer 3: Wondering if an ELI-5 analogy would help here... often when I explain a "seed" phrase, I draw an analogy to a tree that grows from an individual seed. This "seed" phrase can "grow" an entire tree of accounts... Each leaf is an account, with a corresponding key. Each unique seed will grow an entirely different tree of accounts.

This is pretty much why we use the word "seed" to begin with.... could help new users form mental models to something they already understand. 

---

Overall I'm fine with pretty much any of the above... feel free to ignore my analogy; just trying to think how we can convey what is needed simply with accurate terms.

### Can I send bitcoin to an Ethereum address, or ether to a Bitcoin address?

No, you cannot. Bitcoin and ether exist on two separate networks (i.e. different blockchains), each with their own bookkeeping models and address formats. There have been various attempts to bridge the two different networks, of which the most active one is currently [Wrapped bitcoin or WBTC](https://www.bitcoin.com/get-started/what-is-wbtc/). This is not an endorsement, as WBTC is a custodial solution (meaning a single group of people controls certain critical functions) and is provided here for informational purposes only.

### If I own an ETH address, do I own the same address on other blockchains?

> You can use the same address on all EVM compatible blockchains. This [list](https://chainlist.org/) will show you which blockchains you can use with the same address. Some blockchains, like Bitcoin, implement a completely separate set of network rules and you will need a different address with a different format. If you have a smart contract wallet you should check its product website for more info on which blockchains are supported.

Reviewer 3: Hate to do it... but what is the EVM??

🤔 I'm not sure the best way to explain this with clarity and brevity... I don't think just spelling out "Ethereum Virtual Machine" is going to help much here, but we should definitely assume people on this page do not know what the EVM is. 

Maybe something like:

> Some blockchains are built using similar underlying software to Ethereum, known as the Ethereum Virtual Machine, which enables account compatibility with these chains.

Reviewer 3: ^ I chose the word "similar" here instead of "same" since that could falsly equivocate these networks to Ethereum.

Author: ```suggestion
You can use the same address on all blockchains that use similar underlying software to Ethereum (known as 'EVM-compatible'). This [list](https://chainlist.org/) will show you which blockchains you can use with the same address. Some blockchains, like Bitcoin, implement a completely separate set of network rules and you will need a different address with a different format. If you have a smart contract wallet you should check its product website for more info on which blockchains are supported.
```

### Is having my own wallet safer than keeping my funds on an exchange?

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> Having your own wallet means you take responsibility for the security of your assets. There are unfortunately many examples of failed exchanges that lost their customers' money. Owning a wallet (with a seed phrase) removes the risk associated with trusting some entity to hold your assets. However, you have to secure your own keys and avoid phishing scams, accidentally approving transactions or exposing keys, interacting with fake websites and other self-custody risks. The risks are different.

Reviewer 3: I like it.. only though, maybe "The risks and benefits are different" at the end to not solely focus on the negative.

Author: ```suggestion
Having your own wallet means you take responsibility for the security of your assets. There are unfortunately many examples of failed exchanges that lost their customers' money. Owning a wallet (with a seed phrase) removes the risk associated with trusting some entity to hold your assets. However, you have to secure your own keys and avoid phishing scams, accidentally approving transactions or exposing keys, interacting with fake websites and other self-custody risks. The risks and benefits are different.
```

### If I lose my phone/hardware wallet, do I need to use the same wallet app again to recover the lost funds?

> No, you can use a different wallet. As long as you have the seed phrase you can enter it into most wallets and they will restore your account. Be careful if you ever need to do this: it is best to make sure you are not connected to the internet when recovering your wallet so that your recovery phrase is not accidentally leaked. It is often impossible to recover lost funds without the recovery phrase.

Reviewer 2: another term - seed phrase - needs to be unified terminology, otherwise very confusing for the reader.

Author: ok fair point - we should use "seed phrase" everywhere then.

Author: I prefer seed phrase. It does more than recover accounts - it can be used to create an account that does not already exist or recreate an accoutn across multiple devices/wallets - neither of these are "recovery"

Reviewer 2: im still torn, the reason is i looked at onboarding process for some wallets: crypto.com, coinbase wallet and unisim wallet -> they all use "Recovery phrase" not "seed phrase". It would be good to have unified terminology with what users encounter.

Reviewer 2: taho uses "recovery" as well, seems to me it is more widely accepted now

Reviewer 2: @wackerow @minimalsm  whats you take here?

Reviewer 3: I left thoughts elsewhere in this PR but I'll summarize in this thread.

Personally, I usually use both of these together to try and explain this topic, but can be tough in written format while trying to maintain brevity.

I think "seed" offers the ability to provide a better mental model around the topic. That word is used because it refers to how a whole tree of keys grows out from that initial seed. Other real-world analogies we've used on the site seem to get positive feedback from our newer users, and I think there is an opportunity for this here.

At the same time, re: SEO etc, I think it's worth adding a one-liner about the other terms that are also used, which all represent the same thing.

ie,

> You may also see this referred to as a "recovery phrase" or "mnemonic"

> You may also see this referred to as a "recovery phrase" or "mnemonic", as this phrase is easy to write down and store, and can recover all of your accounts.

...something along these lines, depending how detailed you want to be.

Not a hill I'd die on though. If we go with "recovery", then I'd use that consistently and still consider a one-liner to loop in the other terms for completeness.
